---
layout: post
title: 'The Digital Dissertator: Introduction'
date: '2013-03-20T23:44:00-04:00'
tags:
- digidiss
- markdown
- academics
redirect_from: /post/45890938768/the-digital-dissertator-introduction/
image: /images/radio-pink.jpg
---

![Writing](http://fieldnoise.com/diss/images/nonsense1.jpeg)

"Digital humanities" is perhaps *the* biggest buzzphrase in academia
right now, already (and inevitably) the subject of anthologies,
conferences, Twitter hashtags, websites, symposia, etc. I still have
barely dipped my toe into the literature, though I've always been
interested in digital formats specifically as they relate to the
publication and presentation of academic work: ways that we can get
ideas "out there" besides print journals (and their online PDFs). This
is one of the reasons for this Tumblr, and also why I've been closely
following the development of the [Scalar
project](http://scalar.usc.edu/) and other academic digital platforms.

If you click through to the Scalar [link](http://scalar.usc.edu/),
you'll notice another buzzphrase front and center: "born digital." This
usually means projects that were conceived with digital presentation or
distribution in mind, as articulated in
[this](http://digidiss.eserver.org/) "born digital" dissertation archive
concept. As obvious as it may seem, though, today every academic project
is "born digital" at the level of writing—unless you're still writing
with a typewriter, or pen and paper, in which case more power to you. So
when I officially started my dissertation in the fall, I wanted to write
in a way that would be accessible from a variety of platforms (laptop,
iDevice, other computers and operating systems), easily translatable
into a variety of formats, and generally "ready" for digital
publication, distribution, and/or annotation.

I've finally gotten around to sharing some of the tips and tricks I've
been using to these ends in my dissertation over the last year or so.
These will generally be in the style of
["profhacking"](http://chronicle.com/blogs/profhacker/) posts—quick tips
on digital writing, research, or presentation. I'm going to call this
series "the digital dissertator"—use the [tag
link](http://craigeley.com/tagged/digidiss) to find more posts like this
one.
